# Excluding Files

Coming soon...

Okay, we've got CSS, we're even building it with Tailwind. We've got JavaScript, we're bringing in third-party JavaScript. We're writing modern JavaScript syntax. Really, our app has everything that a real app has. Sure, it's kind of small, but we're just about ready to deploy. Before I do, let's do a quick audit on the assets that are inside of our asset map. I'm going to run binconsole debug asset. We know that this lists all of our asset paths up here, which is our main asset path, plus a couple of bundles have exposed a few of their own directories. Down here is a list of all of the files that are going to be exposed publicly. The reason we're running this command is just to double-check and make sure there's nothing in here that we don't expect. Actually, in our case, there is one kind of minor thing that we don't really want in here, and I want to show you how you can hide it. It's the assets styles app.css file. This is really a source file, so it's not meant for the user to download directly. We're using Tailwind to build this into the app.tailwind.css file, and this is actually what's being downloaded by the user. It's not a big deal that this is available publicly, but I want to show you an example of how you could hide this if you have some source files like this that you don't want to expose. To find out how to do this, we're going to run binconsole.config dump framework asset mapper. What we're doing is we're asking the system to give us some example configuration for everything that can be configured under framework.assetmapper because if you remember, when we first installed asset mapper, we did get a config packages asset mapper.yaml file. You can see framework, asset mapper, and apparently one of the keys you can have under there is paths. When we run this command, sure enough, you can see up here on top we have paths. Then below there we have a couple of other interesting things. First one is excluded patterns. This is going to be a way for us to hide certain files from the asset mapper, and we're going to talk about that in a second. You can control the public prefix.  This is where your files are written into the assets directory. Extensions is not too important. This is mostly just for the dev environment and a couple of other things like your import map path and even some attributes that you can put on your import map script and the script tags dumped by the import map. There's some good stuff in here, but mostly you're not going to need to worry about this stuff except for this excluded patterns looks interesting for our case. Let's copy that. I'll spin over on the same level of paths. I'll say excluded patterns. Then what we want to exclude is assets styles app.css. Actually, that's not quite correct. To prove it, after you add that, run debug asset again. If you look up here, assets styles app.css is still there. The reason is that this exclude pattern is kind of a file system pattern, and it's also a glob pattern. It's a fancy way of saying it's not matching, for example, like... Fancy way of saying that what you want here is to have star slash assets. I'm actually going to surround this now in quotes. It's like any file system path slash assets slash styles slash app.css will be ignored. Now, awesome. This is what we want to see because remember, all of these files we see in here are going to be dumped to our public assets directory. Now our nice source app.css file, which doesn't need to be there, won't be there when we deploy. Next, let's get started on deploying with platform.sh.
