# Lazy Stimulus Controllers

Coming soon...

Alright, let me close a couple files. Let's open up assets, controllers, goodbyecontroller.js. Pretend for a moment that this controller is really big and complex. Or probably even more commonly, let's say it imports some big... some big third-party package like D3 for charts. But you only use this on some pages. So here's the deal. In order to register your controllers with stimulus, all of these files are downloaded at runtime. So the page loads, stimulus starts up, all of these files are downloaded, and anything they import is also downloaded. It's kind of wasteful if you're only going to be using this on some pages. So to fix that, above this, you can add a very special syntax. It's a single quote, a single star comment, and you say, stimulus fetch colon, and then lazy. It's a very special thing that we do in Stimulus Bundle that instructs stimulus to not actually download this JavaScript file or anything it imports until an element that matches this is on the page. So a moment ago, if I searched for goodbye, as I said, this is being loaded on the page load before I made that change. But now if I refresh and you see here, if I search for goodbye, it's not there. But check this out. I'm actually going to inspect element on our data controller. Hello. We're going to change that to goodbye and boom, it works. You can see it activated. That's what our goodbye controller does. And if we look at the network tabs, now it did download. So I love this feature. And this can also be done for third party packages. So if you look in assets, controllers, that JSON turbo is not a very good example of it. But if we had said fetch lazy on any of these, they would have the same behavior as our own controllers. So that's it. Easiest chapter ever. Use that to keep your initial page lightweight. If you have some stimulus controllers that are only used in certain places. Next, let's go through some tips of how to debug when things don't work.
