# Page-Specific CSS & JS

Coming soon...

Head over to slash admin. Yes, there is an admin section to the site. Okay, not really. There's a random admin page where I put a big rectangle on there. But this represents an admin section. The reason I have this is that I want to pretend we have a page or a section like this. And we want to add some extra custom CSS and JavaScript on just this page and just this section. Instead of including it everywhere on our front end, because maybe the JavaScript and CSS is really heavy. I typically try to avoid doing this. Instead, I leverage lazy controllers, lazy stimulus controllers. So that they're only loaded when I need it. But sometimes, like in an admin area, it's a perfect situation where you want an extra set of CSS and an extra set of JavaScript. So I wanted to show how to do that with AssetMapper. Now, if we're using Encore, we would open the webpack.config.js file, and we would add a second entry file, which will result in a new CSS and a new JavaScript file. In AssetMapper, we can do something really, really similar. So let's start with CSS. In the styles directory, I'm going to create an admin.css. And just to see if things are working, I'm going to add an admin wrapper div with some xy padding. And that's actually going to, hopefully, add a little padding. I'm going to add a little padding right there. So I'm going to go into the template of this page, templates, admin, dashboard, HTML, twig. And right on here, this is where we're going to have that class equals admin wrapper. Now, of course, it's not going to work yet. Technically, that CSS file, that new admin, that CSS file is available publicly because it's in the assets directory, but we don't have a link tag for it yet. So we're going to add one. There's nothing special about this. We're going to say block style sheets to override the block inside of our parent template. Then we'll call curly curly parent to include the normal stuff. Then we'll have link rel equals style sheet, curly curly, asset, styles, admin.css. And now, unknown block, tag block, you probably saw me do that. Let me fix that typo. Now, that's what you want.  And you see the CSS is being brought in because it's adding the padding to this area here. Awesome. Okay, what about JavaScript? Again, we'd start a lot like Encore, we just create another file, maybe next to app.js called admin.js. I'll just put a little console.log in there so we can see that it's loaded. Now again, this file is being loaded publicly, but nothing is actually available publicly, but nothing's loading it. Now, if you remember from viewing the page source, the way that the app.js file is being imported is thanks to this little script type equals module thing down here that imports app. And this comes automatically from base.html twig from our import map function. So you might think that maybe there's an option you could pass here where you could say I want to load app.js and also admin.js. And there actually isn't an option to do that. And part of the reason is there doesn't really need to be an option to do this, because we can add our own script tag really, really easily. So inside of dashboard.html.twig, we're going to do very similar things before. We're going to say block javascripts and block and then curly curly parent. And then here, we're going to type a script tag. Same as before, we're going to say type equals module. And then here, we're just going to code as if we're in a javascript file. So we're going to say import equals and then the path to our javascript file. So effectively, we want something like this, right? Slash assets slash admin.js. But of course, we're going to use the asset function to point to it. Its logical path is literally admin.js. And that should be it. So if I go over and refresh, check the console, got it. Admin.js is being loaded. If you check out the page source down here, yep, you can see our two. Here for our first script, I could use module from the import map where it says import app. Then down here, we're importing the path. Now notice in the original one, we say import app, and then we rely on the import map to actually map that to its URL. That's a nice thing, but it's not actually necessary.  Putting the path right there works totally fine. And that's what we do down here for ours. So yeah, that's page specific javascript. Super easy. Next, let's talk deployment by setting our project up to deploy with platform.sh.
