# A World without Build Systems?

Coming soon...

Whoa, okay, welcome to a tutorial where we're going to do something that I honestly thought I was done doing for my whole career. We're going to write a modern frontend with zero build system. About seven years ago, we kind of transitioned from just creating JavaScript or CSS files into wrapping them in a build system like Webpack. We had things like Babel, and these days there's newer tools like Vitae. These build systems were created because browsers didn't support modern features that we wanted to use. I'm talking about the import statement, const, the class syntax, all of those things that we use. One of the things the build system would do is actually transpile that, fancy word for, convert that new looking JavaScript to old looking JavaScript so that it could be run in our browser. The build system would also do things like combine JavaScript and CSS files together, so we had less files, it could version the file names, it could process TypeScript and JavaScript, Sass, all kinds of stuff. Build systems are incredibly powerful, but for various reasons that we'll talk about, I should also mention that build systems can be complex and can slow things down. For various reasons that we'll talk about, most of what I just said isn't really needed anymore. We're going to use all the stuff we love, but with zero build system. Now, doing this won't be the best option for every single project, I admit that. For example, if you want to use TypeScript in your project, or you're building a single page application with Reactor, Vue, or Next.js, you're probably still going to want a build system to handle that. But for many projects, this new way of doing things is just awesome. And when there are pros and cons between a new system and a build system, throughout this tutorial, I'm going to let you know. And yes, if you're already wondering about things like Sass, preprocessors, or Tailwind, you can totally use those with this system. All right, so let's get to work here. Let's get our project set up. Coding without a build system is a blast, so you should absolutely download the course code from this page and code along with me. After you unzip that code, you'll have a start directory that is the same code that you see here.  This is actually the project that we've been using in our Symphony 6 series. Pop open this readme.md file. As usual, this has all of the setup instructions that you need. I've done most of them already. So the last step is going to be to find a terminal, move into the project, and run symphony serve-d using the Symphony built-in web server. Symphony binary to start the built-in web server. I'll hold command, click, and hello, mixed vinyl. But yikes, is this thing weird and ugly looking. So as I mentioned, this is a Symphony 6.3 project. It has Doctrine in it, but there's nothing particularly special about it. But right now, it has literally zero CSS support. Literally zero CSS in JavaScript. There's no assets directory. There's nothing hiding inside of the public directory. Nothing. All right, the first thing I want us to talk about is the fact that your browser can now handle a lot more modern stuff than you probably realize. At least that was true for me. So let's see what I'm talking about by taking our browser for a modern JavaScript test drive next.
