# Tailwind CSS

Coming soon...

Our site is actually styled in Tailwind. These are all Tailwind classes. So let's get Tailwind into our site. Now Tailwind is something that requires a build step. And that's totally fine. Even though we don't have a build step for all of our JavaScript and CSS assets, it doesn't mean we can't add a build strip for, add a little build code for just a few specific things. So I'm going to get started. Now as you can see here, you can install Tailwind with Node if you want. That's actually a really flexible way to do it. And then you will have a package.json file, but instead of having Webpack and Encore and all kinds of other stuff, it'll just have Tailwind in it. But if you want to, there's also a standalone executable. That doesn't require anything. I'm actually going to grab that. So I'm going to open this standalone CLI build here. So this takes us to their Tailwind release page there. Then you need to find the exact version that you want. For me, it's the Tailwind arm64. So I'm going to copy that link address. Let me go back over here. And we're basically just going to download that. So I'm going to use those commands, curl-slo and paste. Perfect. Then it doesn't really matter where you put this, but I'm going to move it into the bin directory and just call it Tailwind CSS instead of that long name. And then because this is going to be maybe different on other people's machines, I'm going to go ahead and ignore that new file. So yes, it does mean that with this setup, everyone's going to need to download their own Tailwind CSS file. If you use the Node version, you wouldn't need to do that. And then last step is I'm going to make that executable, chmod plus x bin Tailwind.css. And then also on Mac only, no, that's not going to work. There we go. I just did that as a quick way. If it's the first time you've downloaded this file, it will ask you to verify that you do want to open this. All right, so the point is now we have this bin Tailwind CSS executable. It doesn't require Node. It's completely standalone. It's awesome. So from here, we can kind of just follow the normal docs.  This is the one of the things I really like about the new system is if you do need a build system, you can just use Tailwind's build system directly and follow their instructions directly. So you can see here, you're going to run Tailwind CSS init. So we do that same thing for us, bin Tailwind CSS init, which creates our new Tailwind.config.js file. Let's go pop that open. And the most important thing for us to configure is content. This is where our actual HTML files are going to be. And for that, we can actually search for their Symfony specific documentation because down here they have a really nice setup. They know exactly where assets in our templates directory. That's where we're going to be referencing Tailwind classes. Whoops. So let me paste that in the correct spot. There we go. And then the last step is going to be we'll copy the kind of three baselines for Tailwind and I'm going to go put those inside of my app.css file. I'm going to get rid of the bootstrap stuff. I will keep a little bit of my custom code down there, but there we go. All right, so very simply what we're going to do is we're going to point the Tailwind executable at this app.css file, have it build, have it create a built file, and then we're just going to reference that built file. So there's nothing very magical about this process. So I'm going to run bin tailwind css and then dash I for input, assets styles app.css and then dash O for output. Make sure you put it in the same directory, assets styles app.tailwind.css. Put it in the same directory so that relative paths like this are still going to work. And then at the end I'll do a dash W for watch. So this is a command that you're going to run while you develop. And that's it. Now if you check over, we have app.tailwind.css with all of our stuff inside of it. Awesome. And now in base.html twig, we're just going to kind of ignore the app.css file. It's kind of our source file now. We're going to point it at app.tailwind.css instead. And now moment of truth over here, refresh. Beautiful.  Our site is actually styled. So let's get rid of the bootstrap stuff now. So I'm going to get rid of the bootstrap CDN. We were just showing how that works. Let's get rid of our bootstrap button down here. Looks good. So question about this tailwind file, do we ignore that? Do we commit that? Well, it's part of the build process. So you can commit it, but I'm going to ignore it. And later we'll see how we build that before we deploy. So back over my.gitignore. I'm also going to ignore it, slash asledge slash styles slash app.tailwind.css. That's it. So individual people on the team will need to download their tailwind CSS file. You can commit one if you're all using the same things and then run this command here to build those assets. But then ultimately we're just pointing at the built tailwind file from inside of our base.html twig. This is what's being served to the end user. All right, next let's turn to JavaScript.
