# UX JS Packages

Coming soon...

We can now create custom stimulus controllers. The other half of stimulus bundle is the ability to get more stimulus controllers from the UX packages. So let's install one and see how it works. So let's pretend that we want to get Turbo. So I'm going to say composer require symfony slash UX Turbo. Here's the great thing about this. Just like when we added stimulus, we're going to refresh the page and it just works. So the point of Turbo is that it's going to take away full page refreshes. So I'm actually going to go to my network tools, click on XHR. That was annoying. Head over, refresh, and I'm going to go to network tools, XHR. Let's actually clear this out so we can see everything. Then as we click, you can see that's actually coming from Ajax call. So that clicking around here, the full page refreshes. We don't have a lot of pages, but they're gone. So Turbo just works. Again, that's one of the beautiful things about the new system. There's no build system to kind of get in the way. My practice is this is working because a new JavaScript file is being loaded called Turbo underscore controller. I'm going to go to JavaScript and refresh since I cleared it. There we go. So you can see this Turbo underscore controller is being loaded and it imports at hot wired slash Turbo, which is actually what starts Turbo. Now what's cool is a second ago when we installed the UX Turbo package, if we look at our import map dot PHP, that added at hot wired slash Turbo here. So this is a really common pattern when you install UX packages. If those UX packages depend on some third party JavaScript, they're going to add that third party JavaScript to your import map automatically so that when it's referenced, it just works. Now the question is who is loading this Turbo underscore controller? This is coming from deep inside of like the actual Symphony UX Turbo package itself. The answer to that is it's actually the same trick that we just learned a second ago. So if we search again for controllers dot JS, I'm going to hit open a new tab. Remember this is that dynamic file that the stimulus bundle builds.  Turns out it actually looks for packages in our assets controllers directory, which is these two, and it also reads the assets slash controllers dot JSON file. So when we installed UX Turbo, it added this new section here, which is where we can activate different controllers. So you can see it activated one called Turbo core, enable true, and there's another option of one enabled false. So when this file is being built, it parses our assets controllers directory, finds the controllers that we've enabled. This basically says that we want to enable this specific controller in that bundle. The end result of that is that it actually imports it here and returns it so that the other file can register it inside of Turbo, inside of stimulus. So again, it's an internal detail, but the point is anything in the assets controllers directory or this file, those controllers are going to automatically be made available. They're going to be automatically registered. Now one little detail we didn't talk about with the UX packages is in base dot HTML twig, when we originally installed stimulus bundle, added this little UX controller link tags. That is right now doing nothing. However, if you install certain UX packages, certain UX packages will actually come with CSS files. They'll be under a little key here called auto import. So we install the package, you'll get something that looks like this, but it'll also have this auto import here that points to some CSS file. Some CSS file here. What this UX controller link tags does is it finds all of those CSS files for all the controllers you have activated and it outputs them. So not super important, you should have it. Most UX packages don't have this auto import, but that's how it's going to be output. All right, next let's learn one more thing about stimulus and that's how to make our controllers lazy. It's super easy.
