# 3rd Party CSS

Coming soon...

So what about adding third-party CSS to our site like Bootstrap? Well with a build system like Encore we have a package.json file and we can run something like Yarn.add.bootstrap or npm.add.bootstrap. In AssetMapper, because there's no node, there's no system for grabbing CSS files quite as conveniently. So getting those CSS files is still simple but it's not quite as smooth as it is with a build system. So because we don't have node packages, as I mentioned earlier, I like to rely on jsdeliver. jsdeliver is a CDN for all npm packages and even if you don't use it, it's just a really nice way to find packages and then download them if you want to. And later we're going to see that there isn't a really easy way in AssetMapper to automatically grab JavaScript files. But anyways for CSS, I'm going to search for Bootstrap here. There is Bootstrap. And a lot of times you're going to find the CSS file that you want right on top. In fact this is what we want. So I'm going to hit copy HTML plus SRI. And other times if this isn't the CSS file that you want or you want to look a little deeper, you can also click the files tab and can actually just kind of look through stuff. So you can go through dist, CSS and maybe find the actual CSS file or files that you want. But easy enough. Let's head over and we know that CSS is boring so we're just going to go back over to our style sheets tag and above ours we'll say link rel="style sheet", actually, and we'll paste that new style sheet right there. Now we could, if we wanted to avoid using the CDN, we could download this file directly into our project. And because there's no package system like NPM, when I do that I would probably create like an assets vendor directory and then put the file inside of there and then I would actually commit that assets vendor directory to git so that it's always there. That's kind of your version control for those vendor assets. You're going to see me do this later actually with a JavaScript file.  But I just want you to know, even though it's not, that you have the power to download this stuff, it's not super impressive but you can absolutely do it. All right, to see if this is working, let's add a little bit of, I'll go down to the middle of the page. I'm just going to add a button, type="btn btn-primary", primary button. And over on our site, no surprise. Refresh, there's a button but the CSS is not actually working. Why is that? I'll go over here to my CSS. There's my bootstrap.css being loaded. I'm an idiot. Button class="btn btn-primary", primary button. Let me move over and refresh. It works, cool. But what if I want to modify Bootstrap? Bootstrap itself is built with Sass. In a build system, if you want to, you can actually point your build system at the Sass file instead of the CSS file. By doing that, you can override certain variables inside of Bootstrap. You could make the primary color a slightly different color. I want to say two things about this. First, you absolutely can use Sass with AssetMapper. There are details in the documentation about how to do that. Also, in a few minutes, we're going to add Tailwind CSS to our site, which is going to have a very similar workflow because Tailwind also requires a build step. But second, in the case of Bootstrap, depending on what you want to... Oh, yeah. If you want to use Sass with Bootstrap, there's even a package, a composer package that you can use down here somewhere, which contains the CSS but also the Sass files. Second thing I want to say is that depending on what you want to do, you may not need to use Sass to customize things. That's because Bootstrap also exposes CSS variables. We can see this down on the Customize CSS Variables section. This is just a browser feature where you're able to use variables, set variables instead of CSS, and then reference variables inside of CSS. For example, over in app.css, it doesn't matter where, but we'll use this on top. We'll use this root pseudo selector. It applies to the root of your page. Here we're going to override one of the CSS variables called bsBorderRadius that Bootstrap provides. I'm going to say one rem.  That'll actually make the borders very big. Over here, just by doing that, boom, our border radiuses are now bigger across the site. That's one of the variables that you would see right down on this page. Now, admittedly, it's not always that simple. Let's say that we want to override this color here. We might think that you could do that by searching here for a primary. Scroll up a little bit. There we go. You might think that it's like bsPrimary, like the primary color. You kind of are correct. This color here is the background color. You can see bs, btn. It is that color. Watch, if I try to override this, I'm going to change it to just a little bit of a lighter color. If we go over and try that, it's not going to do anything. As I mentioned, some things it's really easy to override and some things it's a little more difficult. I'm going to copy the CDN URL here. Pop that into a browser and let's take off the.min so we can actually see what's going on. You can see here it's setting all those nice CSS variables. If we look for btn-primary, you can see that it... I'm not going to go into too much of the specifics here, but what it's actually doing is inside of btn-primary, it's setting these CSS variables to these hard-coded colors. It's not referencing another CSS variable. It's not, for example, this color here is not referencing our CSS variable, so we can't really override it. In this case, what we need to do is actually basically re-declare this inside of our class. It's not as bad as it sounds because we can reuse CSS variables, but it's still a little bit of work. For example, I'm going to spin back over to app.css and I'm just going to paste in a little btn-primary. What I'm doing is overriding these variables that are set over here to a different color. In fact, I'm still using my bs-primary. See, I set my bs-primary up to here so I can reference that bs-primary in as many spots as it wants. I'm also customizing the hover color. You're kind of overriding it the same way you override any CSS, but you can still make use of different... You can read bootstrap variables.  In some cases, you can override bootstrap variables to make things happen. Now that does change the color. It's an option. If you need to customize a lot of stuff, Sass is still probably going to be better. I get this question sometimes and I want people to be aware of what they can actually do inside of bootstrap without having to build with Sass. All right, now one last thing I want to talk about. What if we need a custom font for our site? Well, the place that I like to go to for fonts is actually fontsource.org. This is an awesome site. Lots of free fonts that you can use. You don't have to rely on the Google CDN if you don't want to. For example, here's this font called Enter. On here, you can totally download the file. It gives you installation instructions. Notice the installation instructions, it's showing you an npm package. We know what to do with npm packages. I'm going to go over to JS Deliver and I'm going to search for that. Notice the package is called font source variable Enter. I'm actually going to search for font source slash Enter first. Just like with bootstrap, there's our CSS file right there. If you're a font nerd, if you look inside of this, this is actually the 400 weight. It doesn't really matter. This is the file you would normally get if you installed it and used it like we would with Encore. I'm going to copy that URL this time. You can see what it looks like. Notice over here, the original package is called font source dash variable. This is a new thing font source is doing. Variable fonts, not something I'm going to go into. If you actually say font source dash variable here, that's actually the one that we want. I'm going to copy this, head over, go to base.html.twig and add a link tag, relic of style sheets, and I will paste that. Now thanks to that, we can go over to app.css inside of our body tag. I'll say font family. I'm going to say inter variable and then we'll do a backup of just sans serif. Now over here, let's watch closely. Watch our text. Boom, just shifted slightly thanks to that new font.  Now if you're wondering why I didn't just search for this package directly in JS Deliver, that is normally what I do because this is a mirror of every single NPM package. However, due to a bug on NPM right now, these relatively new variable packages aren't found. You can see it finds this in its search, but it doesn't find this. This is just because it's not in... Due to that bug, it's not in their Algolia real time search that's going to get fixed at some point hopefully, but the point is JS Deliver does have it, you just can't find it on the search, which is kind of annoying, but I wanted you to be aware of that. All right, next, let's make our CSS a little bit more complicated by bringing in Tailwind, which is going to be interesting because Tailwind requires a build step.
